---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome"
date:   2021-03-06 00:22:02 +0100
categories: Setup
katex: true
description: "Welcome to my blog. In the first post I will present how I set up this blog"
---
# Welcome

Hi I am happy you found this blog. I will write about different things I encounter from day to day and I hope I will be able and willing to provide regulary some new content. The topics will most likely be in the domains of data analytics, data science and software development. But first I will go meta and talk about how I setup this blog.

## Jekyll

When I was looking for a way to write a blog I was looking around for something where I can easily extract all my content and since I love Markdown I was wondering if there is some blogging tool that supports Markdown. After some research I found [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/). It is a simple site generator that transforms html and Markdown to a html site and there are plenty of plugins and blogging support is there. So I tried it out and I really looks simple. I can test it on my machine and it looks to be easy to deploy.



## Cadre

There are plenty of themes around for Jekyll and I found [Cadre]https://github.com/slee981/jekyll-theme-cadre). It looks simple and has already setup some features I like

- Katex: I can do LaTex
$$ 
x^2 = y^2 + \sum_i z_i 
$$ 
- Google Analytics: To activate it, I just need to set a variable. I am currently hesitating to set it up, GDPR and data protection are fighting against my interests in analytics.
- Disqus: As for analytics it would be simple to activate a commenting system, something for later. Until I took a decision just contact me on Twitter under [Luca_Furrer](https://twitter.com/Luca_Furrer)
- Simplicity: Let's get it started I can refine later on


There is some tweeking on the layout needed, but I thinks this should be possible.

By the way since this is Markdown, it is simple to integrate code snippets as well:

```python
list = [1,2,3]
for i in list:
    print(i)
```

For the moment I guess, that with some LaTex and code all my needs are satisfied.


## CI/CD

I was thinking, I do not want to build and deploy the site manually and I still do so I set up a Github action to build the site and deploy it via FTPS, but somehow I do not manage to connect to my hosting provider from Github. I guess there will be an other post on this topic. For the moment the blog is under source control but there is no continious deployment going. I just have to upload it by hand, but I hope this will not go on forever.


